Grids: Update Columns Sizing Topic to Add Info (#8407)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: concepts/05 UI Components/DataGrid/15 Columns/20 Column Sizing.md

> DataGrid calculates column width values based on the component's width. You can also configure [columnWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnWidth) or **columns[]**.[width](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#width) to specify column widths.

Reviewer: I don't think you need this first part. The same properties are listed again in the list. You also describe default behavior below. You can just start with the following paragraph. 

```suggestion
```

Author: The main purpose of this first paragraph is to essentially say that while DataGrid sets column widths automatically, users can also specify width values manually. I think we can enhance this paragraph a bit by moving the second paragraph's first sentence (or the main info therein) here, something along the lines of:
```suggestion
DataGrid calculates equal width values for all columns based on the component's width by default. You can also configure [columnWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnWidth) or **columns[]**.[width](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#width) to specify column widths.
```

> The default DataGrid behavior is to assign equal width values to columns. To fit all columns within the component container, DataGrid may shrink columns with default **width** values (*"auto"*). This may truncate cell values or collapse columns to zero width. To avoid this behavior, specify one of the following properties:

Reviewer: In the current version, it seems like the control actually assigns width values (in pixels) to columns. But then the second sentence mentions that the default value is "auto". So I would clarify this and start with the fact that no specific widths are assigned initially. 

I'm not sure about the "zero width" reference. If we're still describing the default state, then all columns are the same. If one is "zero width", so should be others. That would be a very rare case. I think we can skip that part. 

I wouldn't say "avoid" in this case, because that kind of implies that our default behavior is not good. Let's just say "change" or "modify" instead of "avoid". 

Finally, I'm not sure about the phrase "one of the following properties". For example, you can set a `minWidth` for one column and `width` for another. So already you're using two different properties. 

```suggestion
Grid columns do not have specific width values assigned by default. Their **width** property value is *"auto"*. In such configuration, all columns have the same width and their total width matches the control. Columns with lengthy content may display truncated values. Other columns may appear too wide for their content. To modify this default behavior, you can use the following properties:
```

Author: I initially wrote the first sentence as follows:

> If you specify **columns[]**.**width** for some but not all columns, the component may truncate cell values or hide certain columns.

Certain columns referred to those with "auto" width values.

The problem with this wording was that DataGrid will also truncate cell values if, for instance, a user defines hundreds of columns within the component.

Zero-width refers to just those columns that do not have a width specified. This can occur if a user specifies one column's width to be the entire width of the component. In this case, all other columns will be visually hidden (though still present in markup).

After much thinking, it is probably best to split the cases of "truncate cell values" and "collapse columns":
```suggestion
To fit all columns within the component container, DataGrid may shrink columns with default **width** values (*"auto"*). This may truncate displayed cell data. If the combined width of columns with specified **width** values exceeds the width of the component, DataGrid collapses all other columns to zero width. To avoid this behavior, you can specify one of the following properties:
```

> - **columns[]**.[minWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#minWidth) (for all columns)/[columnMinWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnMinWidth)

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you mean by "(for all columns)". Do I have to set `minWidth` for all columns. I cannot just apply a minimum width to one column that I need? 

Maybe you wanted to say something like "for individual columns"?

Author: The `DataGrid.minWidth` property applies to all columns, while `DataGrid.columns[].minWidth` applies to specific columns. To configure width values for all columns, users must specify `columns[].minWidth` in each object within the `columns[]` array. Perhaps instead of "for all columns", it is better to explicitely say "in each columns[] object"?
```suggestion
- **columns[]**.[minWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#minWidth) (in each columns[] object)/[columnMinWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnMinWidth)
```

> - **columns[]**.[width](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#width) (for all columns)/[columnWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnWidth)

Reviewer: Maybe you meant "for individual columns"?

Author: Same as with `minWidth`, please refer to my comment above

> - [columnAutoWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnAutoWidth)

Reviewer: I wouldn't describe this property in a separate paragraph. I'd rather do it right here. Other properties are self-explanatory, but we can add a description in this item. 

```suggestion
- [columnAutoWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnAutoWidth) - adjusts columns to fit cell values.
```

> The **columnAutoWidth** property adjusts columns to fit cell values.

Reviewer: I included this part into the list above. 

```suggestion
```

> When the specified width of all columns exceeds the component's width, DataGrid enables horizontal [scrolling](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/scrolling/).

Reviewer: Ray talked about using "activate" instead of "enable" when we can. 

```suggestion
When the specified width of all columns exceeds the component's width, DataGrid activates horizontal [scrolling](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/scrolling/).
```

        <dxi-data-grid-column dataField="Address" [minWidth]="150"></dxi-data-grid-column>
        <!-- ... -->
    </dx-data-grid>

    <!-- tab: app.component.ts -->
    import { DxDataGridModule } from "devextreme-angular";

    // ...
    @NgModule({
        imports: [
            DxDataGridModule
        ],
    })

##### Vue

    <!-- tab: App.vue -->
    <template>
        <DxDataGrid ...
            :column-min-width="100"
        >
            <DxColumn data-field="Title" :width="200" />
            <DxColumn data-field="Address" :min-width="150" />
            <!-- ... -->
        </DxDataGrid>
    </template>

    <script>
    import { DxDataGrid, DxColumn } from 'devextreme-vue/data-grid';
    // ...

    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.tsx -->
    import { DataGrid, Column } from 'devextreme-react/data-grid';

    function App() {
        return (
            <DataGrid ...
                columnMinWidth={100}
            >
                <Column dataField="Title" width={200} />
                <Column dataField="Address" minWidth={150} />
                {/* ... */}
            </DataGrid>
        );
    }
    
---

> DataGrid also allows you to use the mouse to resize columns at runtime. To enable this functionality, set [allowColumnResizing](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Components/GridBase/1%20Configuration/allowColumnResizing.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#allowColumnResizing') to `true`. DataGrid includes two column resizing modes ([columnResizingMode](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Components/GridBase/1%20Configuration/columnResizingMode.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnResizingMode')):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DataGrid also allows you to use the mouse to resize columns at runtime. To activate this functionality, set [allowColumnResizing](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Components/GridBase/1%20Configuration/allowColumnResizing.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#allowColumnResizing') to `true`. DataGrid includes two column resizing modes ([columnResizingMode](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Components/GridBase/1%20Configuration/columnResizingMode.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnResizingMode')):
```

You can also shorten the last sentence like this: 

```suggestion
DataGrid also allows you to use the mouse to resize columns at runtime. To enable this functionality, set [allowColumnResizing](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Components/GridBase/1%20Configuration/allowColumnResizing.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#allowColumnResizing') to `true`. Select a [columnResizingMode](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Components/GridBase/1%20Configuration/columnResizingMode.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnResizingMode'):
```

Author: That is much shorter and more straight-to-the-point, thank you!

> DataGrid calculates equal width values for all columns based on the component's width by default (when column **width** values are *"auto"*). You can also configure the following properties to specify column width values:

Reviewer: I want to simplify both sentences a little: 

- In the first one, "by default" is pretty far from "calculates equal width". First time I read the sentence, I thought you're talking about the "default component width" ("based on component's width by default"). I don't think we have to mention the component width here - not a very important detail. If it is, we should probably go with two sentences. 
- In the second one - just avoid a few repeated or unnecessary words. 

```suggestion
DataGrid columns have equal width in default configuration (column **width** values are *"auto"*). You can configure the following properties to change the column layout:
```

If you really want to mention overall component width: 

```suggestion
DataGrid columns have equal width in default configuration (column **width** values are *"auto"*). Total column width matches the component/container width. You can configure the following properties to change the column layout:
```

Author: Oh I didn't catch that. I will apply your second suggestion with the component width information, thank you!

> DataGrid columns have equal width in default configuration (column **width** values are *"auto"*). Total column width matches the component/container width. You can configure the following properties to change the column layout:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DataGrid columns have equal widths in the default configuration (**width** is set to *"auto"*). The total column width matches the component (container) width. Configure the following properties to change the column layout:
```

- **columns[]**.[width](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#width)/**columns[]**.[minWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#minWidth): Specify width/minimum width for a specific column.
- [columnWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnWidth)/[columnMinWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnMinWidth): Specify width/minimum width for all columns.
- [columnAutoWidth](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnAutoWidth): Adjusts all columns to fit cell values.

Your data or component configuration may result in column layout issues:

- Truncated cell values.
- Collapsed (hidden) columns.
- Columns with excess blank space.

> To resolve these issues, specify column width or minimum width, or enable auto-width.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To resolve these issues, specify the column width or minimum width, or enable auto-width.
```

Author: To add a bit of clarity here, I propose the following:
```suggestion
To resolve these issues, specify column width or minimum width values, or enable auto-width.
```

        <dxi-data-grid-column dataField="Address" [minWidth]="150"></dxi-data-grid-column>
        <!-- ... -->
    </dx-data-grid>

    <!-- tab: app.component.ts -->
    import { DxDataGridModule } from "devextreme-angular";

    // ...
    @NgModule({
        imports: [
            DxDataGridModule
        ],
    })

##### Vue

    <!-- tab: App.vue -->
    <template>
        <DxDataGrid ...
            :column-min-width="100"
        >
            <DxColumn data-field="Title" :width="200" />
            <DxColumn data-field="Address" :min-width="150" />
            <!-- ... -->
        </DxDataGrid>
    </template>

    <script>
    import { DxDataGrid, DxColumn } from 'devextreme-vue/data-grid';
    // ...

    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.tsx -->
    import { DataGrid, Column } from 'devextreme-react/data-grid';

    function App() {
        return (
            <DataGrid ...
                columnMinWidth={100}
            >
                <Column dataField="Title" width={200} />
                <Column dataField="Address" minWidth={150} />
                {/* ... */}
            </DataGrid>
        );
    }
    
---

> DataGrid also allows you to use the mouse to resize columns at runtime. To activate this functionality, set [allowColumnResizing](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Components/GridBase/1%20Configuration/allowColumnResizing.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#allowColumnResizing') to `true`. Select a [columnResizingMode](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Components/GridBase/1%20Configuration/columnResizingMode.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnResizingMode'):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DataGrid also supports mouse-based column resizing at runtime. To enable this feature, set [allowColumnResizing](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Components/GridBase/1%20Configuration/allowColumnResizing.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#allowColumnResizing') to `true` and select a [columnResizingMode](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Components/GridBase/1%20Configuration/columnResizingMode.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/#columnResizingMode'):
```

> - *"nextColumn"*: Adjusts the width of two columns (on either side of a column separator).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *"nextColumn"*: Adjusts the width of the two columns on either side of a column separator.
```

Author: I believe this introduces two problems: complexity (eliminating the brackets) and repetition (specifically, of "the"). Moreover, I believe having these two items immediately back-to back with a clear differentiator (**one** column vs **two** columns) makes them stand out from one another a bit better.

Reviewer 2: Here, the “extra” _the_ clearly refers to the two adjacent columns affected by the separator. The differentiator is carried by “two columns” vs “the column” and the rest of each sentence (either side vs left + component width). Keeping “the” does not change that contrast.

 Another option:
- Adjusts the widths of the columns on either side of a column separator.

> - *"widget"*: Adjusts the width of one column (on the left of a column separator) and the component's width.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *"widget"*: Adjusts the width of the column to the left of a column separator and the component width.
```

Author: Please refer to the comment above.

            :column-min-width="100">
            <DxColumn data-field="Title" :width="200" />
            <DxColumn data-field="Address" :min-width="150" />
            <!-- ... -->
        </DxDataGrid>
    </template>

    <script>
    import { DxDataGrid, DxColumn } from 'devextreme-vue/data-grid';
    // ...

    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.tsx -->
    import { DataGrid, Column } from 'devextreme-react/data-grid';

    function App() {
        return (

>             <DataGrid ...

Reviewer 3: Lets make splitting by line more readable:
```
<DataGrid ...
    columnMinWidth={100}
>
```
